

1 Cameron Bell


1959 Orchard Drive NW υ Olympia, WA 98502 υ (206) 949-8472 υ
eventscribe@gmail.com



1



2 Overview



  Motivated, ambitious, and adaptive business professional with a talent
for quickly mastering technology and a passion for using data to make
better business decisions. A life-long student, will never stop learning
and building mastery working with data and software. Methodical,
analytical, highly adaptive, and creative. Accustomed to leading projects
and serving a diverse group of clients. Asks awesome questions and will
continue working to become a data and web guru.


1


2 Education


BACHELOR’S OF ARTS AUDIO/VISUAL PRODUCTION
EVERGREEN STATE COLLEGE – Olympia, WA
Class of 2007

ASSOCIATES OF APPLIED SCIENCE
INFORMATION SYSTEMS/ .NET DEVELOPMENT
BELLEVUE COLLEGE – Bellevue, WA
2012-2014

Skills Summary

| SQL Server             | Business Analysis  | Python                     |
|.NET / .NET Core MVC    |Agile/Scrum Project |SSRS                        |
|Visual Studio & TFS     |Mgmt                |SAP BusinessObjects         |
|C#                      |HTML5/CSS           |JavaScript/jQuery           |
|                        |Responsive Design   |IIS                         |
|                        |UML                 |Service Oriented            |
|                        |                    |Architecture                |


3 Software   Expertise



SQL  SERVER  |  .NET  DEVELOPMENT  |  BUSINESS  ANALYSIS  |  AGILE   PROJECT
MANAGEMENT



     Advanced development in T-SQL,  SSRS,  TFS,  HTML5,  JavaScript/jQuery,
C#, ASP.NET, and .NET Core  MVC.  Extensive  experience  in  Object-Oriented
Design, Microsoft software patterns  and  practices,  and  Service  Oriented
Architecture. Proven ability to  lead  development  teams,  gather  business
requirements, manage medium-scale IT  projects  using  Agile  methodologies,
and  ensure  products  meet  customer  expectations.  Strong  expertise   in
designing and implementing  mission-critical,  highly-complex  environmental
data systems that adhere to industry  best  practices  and  agency  software
development standards.










         Employment History



       IT APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST 3
       Department of Ecology – Water Resources Program
       Washington State
       October 2022 to Present

As a journey-level developer, responsible for the design,  development,  and
maintenance of large-scale, mission-critical,  highly-complex  environmental
data systems supporting Washington State's water resources management.

Key Responsibilities & Achievements:

Independently design, develop,  and  implement  custom  information  systems
using C#, ASP.NET, HTML5,  MVC,  JavaScript,  Team  Foundation  Server,  and
Microsoft SQL  Server,  adhering  to  industry  best  practices  and  agency
standards
Successfully migrated two legacy systems from  ASP.NET  Web  Forms  to  .NET
Core  MVC,  modernizing  the   technology   stack   and   improving   system
performance, maintainability, and user experience
Develop sophisticated user interfaces and specification packages from  start
to finish; code, test, and implement complex application components and  web
services using reusable C# code
Lead   medium-scale   IT   projects   using   Agile   Software   Development
methodologies  and  LEAN  principles,  managing  project   plans,   budgets,
schedules, product backlogs, and communication strategies to  deliver  high-
value returns on investment
Facilitate  daily  Scrum  meetings  to  manage  development  team  progress,
enabling rapid identification and resolution of project issues
Independently gather end-user requirements  for  medium-scale  IT  projects,
translating  complex  business  needs  into  technical  system  requirements
through structured analysis and collaboration with stakeholders
Successfully manage complex integrated applications across  multiple  server
platforms,  troubleshooting  system  outages  and   implementing   solutions
agreeable to diverse stakeholder groups  (Ecology  staff,  partner  agencies
including WDFW and Department of Health, and environmental consultants)
Ensure adherence to Object-Oriented Design  constructs,  Microsoft  software
patterns and practices, and Service Oriented Architecture principles
Design  and  implement  highly-complex   workflows   between   inter-related
systems, including the Water Acquisition and  Mitigation  Systems,  ensuring
accurate analysis of water resources data for permit writers and  compliance
experts
Lead business analysis efforts  to  gather  requirements,  conduct  testing,
resolve issues, and minimize bugs before production  release,  resulting  in
high user satisfaction and trust in new systems
Manage data migration from legacy systems,  ensuring  successful  completion
and data integrity
Research and evaluate  new  software  products  and  emerging  technologies,
develop recommendations, and participate on agency-wide teams  to  establish
standards  and  best  practices  in   application   architecture,   software
development project management, and testing methodologies

Technologies:  C#,  ASP.NET,  .NET  Core  MVC,  HTML5,  JavaScript,  jQuery,
Python, SQL Server, Team  Foundation  Server,  UML,  IIS,  Service  Oriented
Architecture


       DATA ANALYST
       Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction
       Washington State
        2014 to 2016, 2017 to October 2022

Served in roles as data and business analyst for  the  development  of  ICOS
(Information and Condition of Schools), the inventory system used  to  track
inventory  and  condition  information  about  Washington   State’s   school
facilities.

Served as program lead and user-acceptance tester in the conversion of  ICOS
from Silverlight to .NET Core MVC.

Implemented  an  electronic  D-FORM  process,  automating  a   large   grant
application process, creating a digital record of  the  School  Construction
Assistance Program, and eliminating tremendous amounts of paper waste.

Worked with software architects, project managers,  and  business  staff  in
the development and management of databases and software systems.

Provided  accurate  data  and  analysis  related  to  capital   funding   of
Washington’s schools.

Provided technical assistance to  school  districts,  educational  partners,
and OSPI staff.

Prepared various written and visual products including legislative  reports,
software technical documentation, user manuals, interactive  reports  (SSRS,
R, Excel), and user interface designs.



       Business Intelligence Developer
       WaTech (Enterprise Applications Division)
       Washington State
       2016 to 2017

Provided one-on-one support to assist customers with  Self-service  Business
Intelligence report development.

Provided tier 2/3 technical support for Enterprise Reporting Services.

Assisted  and  troubleshot  problems  in  a   large   enterprise   reporting
environment.

Provided  functional  and  end-to-end  testing  of  an  SAP  BusinessObjects
reporting environment.

Tested, debugged, and developed complex T-SQL queries.

Managed and audited system security and system access.








       JUVENILE JUSTICE AND REHABILITATION COORDINATOR
       Washington State Juvenile Justice and  Rehabilitation  Administration

        Department of Social and Health Services
       2008 to 2014


Served as the primary policy writer, report developer,  intake  coordinator,
and  cultural  programs  administrator  for  a  Washington  State   juvenile
rehabilitation facility.

Supervised multiple  data  collections  to  identify,  monitor  and  improve
conditions and rehabilitation  services  provided  in  order  to  adhere  to
national standards.

Led the institution in seeking accreditation for the  American  Correctional
Association, changing  policies  to  reflect  best  practices  and  national
standards for correctional care, securing over $400,000 a  year  in  funding
from the legislature.

Managed  a  diverse  cultural  and  faith  program,  supervising  dozens  of
volunteers and state employees.

Served as  the  GoTo  Meeting  administrator,  providing  video-conferencing
solutions to 100+ employees and clients.








